---
layout: post
title:  What is Research Software Hour?
date:   2020-04-22
categories:
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

... don't we wish we knew, too!  We hope to figure this out with you.

Programming can be fun.  Research can be fun.  But when combined, many
skills fall through the gaps.  We think that computing is best learned
like an apprenticeship, but unfortunately most researchers don't have
access to high-quality computing mentorship.

<!--more-->

[Radovan Bast](https://bast.fr) is a theoretical chemist turned
Research Software Engineer.  He's worked in France, Stockholm, and now
Tromsø at the border between science, software, and computational
support.  He now works in the [High Performance Computing
group](https://hpc.uit.no) at the University of Tromsø, Norway and
leads the [CodeRefinery](https://coderefinery.org) project.  Richard
Darst is also a theoretical chemist turned computational research
specialist and has worked in the United States and Finland.  He now
works for [Aalto Scientific Computing](https://scicomp.aalto.fi) at
Aalto University, Finland.  They met through the CodeRefinery project,
which teaches best practices in research software.

Together, we have decades of experience programming for science,
mentoring, and teaching computing.  They've seen a *crisis of
computing*, where computing demands are increasing while there isn't a
corresponding increase in the *practical skills* that go along with
it.  Mentoring does not reach enough people, and teaching does not
take the role of hands-on mentoring or convey spirit of computing (and
also still doesn't reach enough people).

Thus, we need another strategy.  We are trying this web show to
combine informal teaching with the *feeling and spirit* of computing.

We'll develop the program based on what people want, but broadly
speaking we want to:

* Have entertaining discussions about research software and
  computing.  Show why we enjoy it so much and how you can, too.

* Teach tips and tricks (and learn new ones ourselves, too) - at least
  introduce new ideas and point you where to look for more info.

* Take code submitted by users and go through it and discuss how we'd
  improve it - to show our whole thought process.

* Show you the errors we make and how we get through them.  And do our
  own learning at the same time, too.

* We'll cover everything from research software and data to high-performance
  computing and Linux.

This is an open source production - anyone can help us develop RSH,
too.  Join us!
