---
layout: post
title:  Workflows and documentation, RSH 004
date:   2020-05-19
categories:
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

Our fourth broadcast is on Tuesday, May 19, 2020, at 20:30 Oslo time/ 21:30 Helsinki time
([convert to your time](/time/)).

We will talk discuss workflows and documentation, with many smaller tips and tricks in between.

<!--more-->

The stream starts 10
minutes early and you can use this time to already start asking
questions you may have.

Follow this website, or Twitter
[@\_\_radovan](https://twitter.com/__radovan) or
[@SciCompAalto](https://twitter.com/SciCompAalto) for updates.

Videos are posted at the [youtube
playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpLblYHCzJAB6blBBa0O2BEYadVZV3JYf).


## Questions and answers from our collaborative document

### What did you learn recently that you are really excited about?

- observable (https://observablehq.com)
    - its like an interactive version of jupyter notebook that has a dependency graph built in. in that sense it is consistently stateful.
    - yes it it collaborative.
- How to build my cpp projects with CMake, make my own libraries and import these dependencies with CMake. I used to hate CMake until a few months ago. No more!
- learned how to couple Rust and Python and to deploy it to PyPI
- GitHub Actions to automate testing/deployments
- [Great tool for working with binary formats](http://kaitai
- thanks guys! enjoyed it again! greetings from germany :)
- Thanks a lot!
- yes, thanks :-) learned a lot!


### Discussion

- How do makefiles know which source files have been changed since the
  recent make?
    - Make decides whether a target needs to be regenerated by
      comparing file modification times.
      (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Make_(software))
- You could use .PHONY, there can be a problem if e.g. a file
  "finalization" is present
- make -j for parallelization
    - This will parallelize a make run automatically
- For workflows, how do you deal with when a pipeline of reproducible
  expensive steps fails at some point, and maybe something like a
  Makefile gets confused?
  - If you define the steps in the Makefile, and they have fixed
    inputs and outputs, it should do the right thing.
- When you're writing documentation for something that has multiple
  audiences (say, developers of the library, developers integrating
  the library, and maybe non-technical users further down the line),
  how do you prioritize what documentation to write?
  - We'll discuss this in the section

- https://meldmerge.org/

- `git diff --word-diff=color`

- what shell do you use?
    - bash +3
    - tcsh/csh +1
    - zsh +2
    - fish
    - ... ?
    - zsh for interactive, bash for scripting (from chat)
    - is there much difference between shells (from chat)
        - that's tricky, for interactive use not much, for scripting
          it gets hairy but there are clear differences between
          C-family shells and sh-family ones (from chat)

- what about "perspectives from different people: developers, users,
  installers, user support?"

- sphinx-gallery
    - The idea is that with your docstrings, and just a folders in
      which you dump some examples, you have a pretty complete
      documentation setup. Get the most bang for your buck. (from
      chat)
    - All these complicated config files are simply copy/pasted from
      repositories that went through the trouble of setting all of
      this stuff up. (from chat)
    - All of this stuff is auto-generated by sphinx. (from chat)
    - Also: examples serve as integration tests (from chat)
    - readthedocs.org

thanks for watching!
